docs/FuturePlans.md, before:

## The future of project-origin
This project is a seed for a far-reaching vision. In the future, it should allow developing a wide variety of universes. Below are some examples of future capabilities of project-origin:

- project-origin should allow extending the physics of the environment easily and maybe incorporate realistic physical simulators.
- It should support morphology of creatures, i.e. to give physical shape to creatures, that may affect their capabilities such as movement speed, power, etc.
- It should support the introduction of different objects with a variety of functionalities and behavior to the universe.
- While currently, space is a 1-D, in the future it should allow supporting different types of spaces.
- Controlling biological aspects of physics such as mating rule, evolution, and intelligence inheritance.
- It should allow extending the creature's capabilities, such as adding vocal communication and even love, hate, and motivation.
- It should allow defining dynamic natures, like periods of dearth and epidemics. 
- Online control of nature to observe the effect of the population. 
- Use dynamic graph deep learning framework such as TensorFlow 2.0 or Pytorch.
- Use openAI baselines and/or Google dopamine projects as implementation of the creature brain. 

## Far reaching plans and directions
- Oral tradition - Experience or intelligence heritage not through dna.
- Model selection and hyper-parameter tuning. Show that Convolutional can better survive than fully connected layers.
- Special relation between individuals based on graph networks to process the relationship between individuals.
- Hebbian Learning vs. Gradient based in survival environment. Which is better? 
- Develop a game platform which allow training of a race and then allow it compete over resources with different race.
- Make a context between different implementation of Rl algorithms, model-based and model free, policy gradient and TD learning.

Commit message:

docs content. Since the current implementation of human is to have a single brain, oral tradition is not relevant.

docs/FuturePlans.md, after:

## The future of project-origin
This project is a seed for a far-reaching vision. In the future, it should allow developing a wide variety of universes. Below are some examples of future capabilities of project-origin:

- project-origin should allow extending the physics of the environment easily and maybe incorporate realistic physical simulators.
- It should support morphology of creatures, i.e. to give physical shape to creatures, that may affect their capabilities such as movement speed, power, etc.
- It should support the introduction of different objects with a variety of functionalities and behavior to the universe.
- While currently, space is a 2-D, in the future it should allow supporting different types of spaces.
- Controlling biological aspects of physics such as mating rule, evolution, and intelligence inheritance.
- It should allow extending the creature's capabilities, such as adding vocal communication and even love, hate, and motivation.
- It should allow defining dynamic natures, like periods of dearth and epidemics. 
- Use dynamic graph deep learning framework such as TensorFlow 2.0 or Pytorch.
- Use openAI baselines and/or Google dopamine projects as implementation of the creature brain. 
- Using Unity or other engine, implement a visual simulation environment. 
- Add morphology and form to creatures that defines its biological and physical features.


## Far reaching plans and directions
- Model selection and hyper-parameter tuning. Show that Convolutional can better survive than fully connected layers.
- Special relation between individuals based on graph networks to process the relationship between individuals.
- Hebbian Learning vs. Gradient based in survival environment. Which is better? 
- Develop a game platform which allow training of a race and then allow it compete over resources with different race.
- compare between different implementation of RL algorithms, model-based and model free, policy gradient and TD learning.
